# Why Linux is just better
## Main Points
### Free and open source nature
- What is it like when you buy some food in a restaurant but can't see how it was made? Similar
is the case when you use proprietary software, for example, Windows. Linux, in contrast
is an open source project, meaning that you can see how Linux works. That way, anyone could
take a look at the code to prevent flaws or malicious means done by the software.
### Customization
- The core feature of Linux is deciding what you want. For example, you can browse,
  install and change icon themes, global themes, window decorations, etc. with ease, while
  the only customization left on Windows is wallpaper changing. (Well, you can still use those
      wacky software found randomly on the internet for Windows, but that isn't what you trust,
      right?)
### Free
  - Windows users need to pay hundreds of dollars to install Windows, while Linux users
  get their OS for free.
## Myths About Linux (Counterargument)
  - Windows is more user-friendly than Linux.
  - It is true that there are some Linux distros, like Arch Linux or Linux from Scratch, that requires
  using the terminal to install. However, more and more Linux distros tend to make the Linux
  experience as user-friendly as they could, such as Linux Mint or Pop!_OS. They provide graphical
  user interfaces that only require a few clicks to install.
  - Windows provides a better gaming environment than Linux
  - Although Linux does have less software support than Windows, that doesn't mean that Linux isn't
  good for gaming. Remember what a hassle it is to install the necessary drivers on Windows? Fear no
  more, because Linux comes with those drivers out of the box, including graphical backends such as
  OpenCL, Vulkan, or even the notorious proprietary Nvidia drivers. Even if Linux doesn't provide
  some other backends you want, you can just install them with the package manager; no further configuration is needed.
# Paragraph
  - Although the vast majority of people are Windows users, everyone knows that if you want customizations, stability, and transparency, Linux is the only way to go. Here are some reasons why Linux is just better than any other operating system out there. To start, Linux is full of infinite amounts of customizability, the only limit is your imagination. Including package management, distro options, themes, icons, etc. are just the tip of the iceberg of what you can decide for your one and only unique tux. Talking about the uniqueness of Linux, modularity is the second reason that Linux is better. There's a saying that Linux can run on up to supercomputers, down to the potato you just bought at the grocery store. Distros like tiny core Linux can even power a GUI under 12 MB, which is about a fraction of the picture you took with your phone. The next advantage of using Linux is obviously privacy. The Linux world sees privacy as an essential human right, most Linux utilities only enable opt-in telemetry. You might ask if I can be sure about what they tend to claim. This brings to reason four another benefit of Linux: openness. The core of the Linux ecosystem is about free software. The word "free" they have isn't about the price, it is in fact about the philosophy behind them. [Free software](https://www.fsf.org/about/what-is-free-software)developers shoe their source code to the public for anyone to read, modify, or even publish patches upstream. Talking about the transparency of the Linux source code, another big asset of Linux is that it is free from malware, no matter if it's trojan or ransomware, Linux is nearly free from them, just because Linux users can see the source code, the moment someone decides to add a backdoor or two, sharp-eyed developers will spot them in a matter of seconds. Take the recent xz backdoor as an example. A random developer from Microsoft discovered a 50-millisecond delay from xz, so he inspected the source code and found out that it included a severe backdoor that compromised Linux's security. Another good reason why Linux is safe is that Linux is just "incompatible" with them. As you all know, Linux has a low market share (about three percent), thus hackers won't target Linux as there are much fewer Linux users than macOS and Windows users. The last reason that Linux users are free from attacks from hackers around the world is because the operating system is based on UNIX, another operating system from Bell Labs owned by A T&T. Unix provides a robust user and root privilege mechanic, keeping out the strangers from stepping into the system. Another notable reason to use Linux is because Linux is extremely lightweight. Compared to Windows, Linux is not as resource-heavy as Windows. Some even breathed new air into old but functional hardware that has been dropped by newer Windows versions. Last but not least, Linux is extremely stable. Frequent updates that require rebooting and random blue screens that have been troubling Windows users a lot don't happen on Linux. In fact, all Linux needs to do to update their software is just typing out a command while moving on to other tasks to be done aside from upgrading the operating system. Some people might argue that Linux is much less gamer-friendly than Windows. However, despite the lack of software platform support on Linux, Linux is considered to be one of the best gaming operating systems out there, at least it's better than macOS. The fact that Linux has graphical drivers and APIs preinstalled like radeon-vulkan or NVIDIA proprietary drivers preinstalled makes Windows users have to scramble over the internet just to find the right driver for their system envy. Even if they aren't installed, Linux users may just be a command away from installing the required optimization drivers for their gaming needs. Others might claim that Linux is just for tech-savvy people, but not suitable for normal user's everyday use. Linux's desktop experience has been improving significantly over the years. And any task you can think of that can be done on Windows can also be done on Linux, graphically. Installing/Upgrading software? Editing documents? Or even managing the CPU governor? You're just a click away. These are the main reasons that why Linux is just the best operating system in the world.
