# 英文學習歷程檔案

## What did you learn?

Instead of learning English, I actually learned much more about *important morals* from Ms. Ingrid, who guided me to see my own mistakes in the mirror.
Time flies, and in those four months I've taught myself about how important self-discipline is, I've grown little by little.
I've learned that getting stuff done in time isn't opt-in anymore, which makes self-discipline so important in high school.
So, if I could somehow defeat my immediate desires to fulfill my long-term life goals!

## Why did you have the change?

The thing that has been bugging me a lot is that I know what I've been doing wrong, but I can't resist from doing them. I even know the only thing to do to solve the problem is to conquer myself, but doing so requires lots of willpower. What can I do to solve this problem? BTW thanks for reading my long and *boring* answers arguing about my problems that I can't solve, it's my pleasure.

*Multitasking* aka not concentrating in class
Bragging about myself
Being offensive
Homework quality
Dropping my exam score(Should've done better because those nine points that I've lost in the second exam was by carelessness)
Can think of little positive aspect from an item
Being disrespectful
Little to none self-discipline
etc.

English skills
Great introspection
Analyzing a story

*I believe* that nearly every person who has become my member will want to work with me again, because not like what I've used to be in elementary school and middle school, I managed to accomplish what I need to do in the group and even helped the other members. Sometimes, when my work is done, I even help people outside the group! I keep doing so because I enjoy helping others out with my skills. What I'm unsatisfied with myself in groupwork is that I sometimes help too much, and do not know what to do if other members start to slack off. In that kind of scenario, I often help them do the work instead of telling them to do their part. I hope that I'll be better at communicating with others next semester!

Let's be honest here: most of the words that comes out from my mouth has satisfactory "quality". Although I may sometimes come up superb answers in class, but most of the words that I've said in class aren't necessary. In fact, sometimes those words might even become offensive! I'll keep track of my words from my mouth just like how factories keep track of their industrial wastewater before they get into the river!
